# Getting and Cleaning Data

Course Project
Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Dataset
#### Angela Di Serio

This repository includes the following files:
 1.  run_analysis.R
 2.  CodeBook.md

To run the script file, you might use the R source command:  source("run_analysis.R")
 
####**run_analysis.R**
It is an R script that cleans data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S 
smartphone and prepares a tidy data that can be used for later analysis.
The input data used by the run_analysis script could be downloaded from 
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip 
and the script must be located inside de "UCI HAR Dataset" directory after unzip the file

run_analysis.R performs the followwing steps:
 1. Combines train and test sets to create a merged data set
   1. train data
     * Reads train data set: X_train.txt 
     * Reads the list of all features: features.txt that correspond to the column names of X_train.txt (X_test.txt)
     * Since the list of features contains some punctuation marks, these are removed from the column names to produce valid column names 
     * Assign the names to the object that will contain the merged data 
	 * Reads subject_train.txt which contains the subject identification who performed the activity for each windows sample.
	 * Reads activity labels (y_train.txt) which identifiy the activities perfomed by a subject
     * A new variable, TrainVsTest,  is added to identify whether the data corresponds to  a Train or a Test. In this cas a value of "Train" is assigned
     * Combines subject, activity and train data with a column bind operation
   2. test data 
	 * Reads test data set: X_test.txt 
	 * Reads subject_test.txt which contains the identification of the subject who performed the activity for each windows sample.
     * Reads activity labels (y_test.txt) which identifiy the activity perfomed by a subject
     * Combines subject, activity and test data set (column bind)
	 * Set the variable TrainVsTest to "Test"
     * Merges train and test data sets using  a row bind operation
 2. Extracts only the measurement on the mean and standard deviation for each measure. Measures with meanFreq were not included
 3. Asigns descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
 4. Creates a tidy data set (TidyData.txt) in the working directory. This file contains the average of each variable grouped by activity and subject.
 
 NOTE: 
  *** 1. run_analysis.R requires dplyr package. The script will automatically install the package if it is missing.
  *** 2. Once unzipped the "Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Dataset", run_analysis script should be located inside "UCI Har Dataset" directory 

 
####**CodeBook.md**
A code book describing each variable and its value in the tidy data set generated by run_analysis script